README.md, before:

# NICKA
##About:
*[CS401 Mini-Project Capstone]* Program to Register and maintain records of code words, nicknames, reconnaissance nicknames and exercise terms and controls their use within the GCCS-T. The System validates code word, nickname and exercise term usage with assigned agencies, assigned blocks, assigned prefixes and ensures nicknames and exercise terms are not duplicated. 

##Setup:

####Jango 1.8.4 Setup

1. Install dependencies (`$pip install Django==1.8.4` (MySQL-Python==1.2.5, mysql-connector-python==2.0.4)
2. cd /django-NICKA
3. `$python manage.py runserver`

####Database

- [root]/[app]/models.py
```
class Operation(models.Model):
	code_word = models.CharField(max_length=200)
	location = models.ForeignKey(Location)
	agency = models.ForeignKey(Agency)
	user = models.ForeignKey(User)
	op_num = models.IntegerField()
	clearance = models.CharField(max_length=30)
	def __str__(self):
		return self.code_word
```
- Exploring the shell:
	- `$python manage.py shell`
	- `>from codenames.models import * `
	
####Frontend
- [Simple form](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial04/)
- [Styling](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial06/)

####Frontend using templates

- admin template belongs in [project]/templates/admin/
- each app template belongs in [project]/[app]/templates/
- create .html file in template folder or use from "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/contrib/admin/templates/"
- add template path to project in [project]/settings.py
```
TEMPLATES = [{
        'BACKEND': 'django.template.backends.django.DjangoTemplates',
        'DIRS': [
            os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'templates'),
            ],
        'APP_DIRS': True,
        'OPTIONS': {
            'context_processors': [
                'django.template.context_processors.debug',
                'django.template.context_processors.request',
                'django.contrib.auth.context_processors.auth',
                'django.contrib.messages.context_processors.messages',
        ],},},]
```

####URLs
- [url filtering](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial03/)
- adding views to [app]/views.py
	```
	from django.http import HttpResponse
	def index_page(request):
    	return HttpResponse("Hello, world")
	```
- create [app]/urls.py
	```
		from django.conf.urls import url
		from . import views

		urlpatterns = [
			url(r'^$', views.index, name='index_page'),
		]
	```
- edit [project]/urls.py
	```
	from django.conf.urls import include, url
	from django.contrib import admin

	urlpatterns = [
	    url(r'^[app]/', include('[app].urls')),
	    url(r'^admin/', include(admin.site.urls)),
	]
	```
- now when visiting [host]:8000/[app] will display "Hello, world" from the index page in views.py

####Users

- [Admin](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial02/):
	- `$python manage.py createsuperuser`
 	- localhost:8000/admin/
	- codenames/admin.py
	```
		from django.contrib import admin
		from .models import Name
		class NameAdmin(admin.ModelAdmin):
			fields = ['nickname','date', ...]
		admin.site.register(Name, NameAdmin)
	```

####Testing

- [Tests](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial05/)

####Jango project creation

- `$django-admin.py startproject NICKA`
- Edit NICKA/settings.py for database settings
- `$./manage.py migrate`
- `$python manage.py startapp codenames`
- create models for database in codenames/models.py
- add `codenames` to INSTALLED_APPS in NICKA/settings.py
- `$python manage.py makemigrations codenames`
	- run when making changes to models, run sqlmigrate to view sql
- `$python manage.py sqlmigrate codenames 0001`
	- creates the model tables in db

Commit message:

corrected models and fixed admin page

README.md, after:

# NICKA
##About:
*[CS401 Mini-Project Capstone]* Program to Register and maintain records of code words, nicknames, reconnaissance nicknames and exercise terms and controls their use within the GCCS-T. The System validates code word, nickname and exercise term usage with assigned agencies, assigned blocks, assigned prefixes and ensures nicknames and exercise terms are not duplicated. 

This repo only reaches to the extent of our sprint 1 goal and does not achieve the project goal stated above. The sprint 1 goal was to setup a test database as a foundation for the rest of the project. We decided on using Django to setup the database (in SQLite) and basic front end (HTML/CSS templates & admin control panel). 

##Setup:

####Jango 1.8.4 Setup

1. Install dependencies (python 2.7, pip, `$pip install Django==1.8.4`)
2. cd /django-NICKA
3. `$python manage.py runserver`

####Database

- [root]/[app]/models.py
```
class Operation(models.Model):
	code_word = models.CharField(max_length=200)
	location = models.ForeignKey(Location)
	agency = models.ForeignKey(Agency)
	user = models.ForeignKey(User)
	op_num = models.IntegerField()
	clearance = models.CharField(max_length=30)
	def __str__(self):
		return self.code_word
```
- Exploring the shell:
	- `$python manage.py shell`
	- `>from codenames.models import * `
- [Model field reference](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/models/fields/#slugfield)
	
####Frontend
- [Simple form](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial04/)
- [Styling](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial06/)

####Frontend using templates

- admin template belongs in [project]/templates/admin/
- each app template belongs in [project]/[app]/templates/
- create .html file in template folder or use from "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/contrib/admin/templates/"
- add template path to project in [project]/settings.py
```
TEMPLATES = [{
        'BACKEND': 'django.template.backends.django.DjangoTemplates',
        'DIRS': [
            os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'templates'),
            ],
        'APP_DIRS': True,
        'OPTIONS': {
            'context_processors': [
                'django.template.context_processors.debug',
                'django.template.context_processors.request',
                'django.contrib.auth.context_processors.auth',
                'django.contrib.messages.context_processors.messages',
        ],},},]
```
- [Template design tutorial (tangowithdjango.com)](http://www.tangowithdjango.com/book/chapters/templates.html)
- [Django Template Language](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.7/topics/templates/)

####URLs
- [url filtering](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial03/)
- adding views to [app]/views.py
	```
	from django.http import HttpResponse
	def index_page(request):
    	return HttpResponse("Hello, world")
	```
- create [app]/urls.py
	```
		from django.conf.urls import url
		from . import views

		urlpatterns = [
			url(r'^$', views.index, name='index_page'),
		]
	```
- edit [project]/urls.py
	```
	from django.conf.urls import include, url
	from django.contrib import admin

	urlpatterns = [
	    url(r'^[app]/', include('[app].urls')),
	    url(r'^admin/', include(admin.site.urls)),
	]
	```
- now when visiting [host]:8000/[app] will display "Hello, world" from the index page in views.py

####Users

- [Admin](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial02/):
	- `$python manage.py createsuperuser`
 	- localhost:8000/admin/
	- codenames/admin.py
	```
		from django.contrib import admin
		from .models import Name
		class NameAdmin(admin.ModelAdmin):
			fields = ['nickname','date', ...]
		admin.site.register(Name, NameAdmin)
	```

####Testing

- [Tests](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial05/)

####Jango project creation
- [Tutorial](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/intro/tutorial01/)
- `$django-admin.py startproject NICKA`
- Edit NICKA/settings.py for database settings
- `$./manage.py migrate`
- `$python manage.py startapp codenames`
- create models for database in codenames/models.py
- add `codenames` to INSTALLED_APPS in NICKA/settings.py
- `$python manage.py makemigrations codenames`
	- run when making changes to models, run sqlmigrate to view sql
- `$python manage.py sqlmigrate codenames 0001`
	- creates the model tables in db 
- `$python migrate`
	- run at end of migrations
